[Student 2: explain what the fork system call does]
The fork system call allows a process to create a new process by duplicating the contents within the calling (parent) process. The new process created is called the child process and runs concurrently with the parent process. When the fork() call is made, the operating system makes a copy of the memory space (including code, data and stack) of the parent to the child. This system call also returns different values to each process. The parent process receives the PID of the child process, and the child process gets a 0 assigned to it to indicate that it is a child process. After fork(), both processes continue executing from the instruction immediately after the fork() call, allowing them to perform different tasks based on the return value.

[Student 1: explain what the exec function does]
The exec() function is a system call that replaces the memory image of the process that called it with information from a new executable. This new executable can be specified when calling the function (e.g. exec(“/bin/ls”)). Unless the exec() function itself fails, the calling process does not gets control back since its stack, heap, data, and text sections of its allocated memory are completely replaced. Since no new process is created, the PID of the process as it transitions does not change. This function is useful when children processes need to branch off and execute other instructions after a fork(), rather than working on the same code as their parent. The CPU is allowed to "switch context" in this way because of its fetch-execute cycle, since the new executable’s instructions are loaded the text section of its memory.
